.TH BTXINDEX 1 "$Date: 2006-01-08 19:56:46 $" "Version 3.0"
.SH NAME
btxindex \- create index files for Bibtex bibliography files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\*(BI
.\".OP o file .\|.\|.
.OP p int
.OP s dirs
.OP w dir
.OP "" bfile\fI[\fP\fB.bib\fP\fI]\fP .\|.\|.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(BI creates the index files used by \*(BL\|(1).  \*(BI reads the bibliography
file \fIbfile\fP.bib and writes the index file \fIbfile\fP.bix; if no files are
given, \*(BI indexes every bibliography file it finds.  \*(BI uses the
directories given in the BIBINPUTS environment variable when searching for
bibliography files; if BIBINPUTS isn't defined, \*(BI searches the directory in
which it is run.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP \w'\-pp'u
.B \-p \fIint\fP
Print messages from level \fIint\fP or below; \fIint\fP is an integer. For
levels less than 1, print no messages; for level 1, print error messages; for
level 2, print progress messages; for level 3, print statistics.  The default
level is 1.  Repeated \fB\-p\fP options are not cumulative; all but the
right-most option is ignored.

.TP
.B \-s \fIdirs\fP
Search through the directories given in \fIdirs\fP when looking for
bibliography files; \fIdirs\fP is a colon separated list of directories.  The
default is to search though the path list given in the BIBINPUTS environment
variable, or to search the current directory if BIBINPUTS isn't defined.
Repeated \fB\-s\fP options are not cumulative; all but the right-most option is
ignored.

.TP
\fB\-w \fIdir\fP
Write index files in directory \fIdir\fP.  The default is to write the index
file in the directory containing the associated bibliography file. Repeated
\fB\-w\fP options are not cumulative; all but the right-most option is ignored.

.SH NOTES
Reference keys are not indexed.
.PP
Both string names and the defined strings are indexed.

.SH FILES
.TP  \w'\-pp'u
$HOME\|/\|.btxindexrc

.btxindexrc is read before the command line is processed and should contain
any of the \*(BI command-line options.  Options given on the command line
over-ride the same options given in .btxindexrc.
.PP
The contents of .btxindexrc are run through shell expansion while being read;
for example $HOME would be replaced by its definition.  Shell expansion does
not include command-result replacement; for example, `pwd` and $(pwd)
directives are not processed.  Errors that occur during shell expansion, such
as undefined environment variables or attempts to perform command-result
replacement, cause \*(BI to stop with an error.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*(BL\|(1), \fBbibtex\fP\|(1), \fBlatex\fP\|(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Jeff Erickson wrote \fBbibindex\fP;  R. Clayton modified \fBbibindex\fP to
create \*(BI.
.PP
This program is in the public domain.  You may use it or modify it to your
heart's content, at your own risk.
