.TH BTXLOOK 1 "$Date: 2006-01-08 19:56:46 $" "Version 3.0"

.SH NAME
btxlook \- find entries in Bibtex bibliography files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\*(BL
.OP d pgm
.OP p int
.OP s dirs
.OP u
.OP "" bfile\fI[\fP\fB.bix\fP\fI]\fP .\|.\|.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(BL finds entries in the \*(Bi bibliography file \fIbfile\fP.bib by searching
the associated index file \fIbfile\fP.bix created by \*(BI\|(1).  If no file
names are given on the command line, \*(BL searches every index file it finds.
\*(BL uses the directories given in the BIBINPUTS environment variable when
finding index files; if BIBINPUTS isn't defined, \*(BL finds files only in the
directory in which it is run.
.PP
Index files must exist and be up-to-date (that is, younger than the associated
bibliography file); \*(BL ignores out-of-date index files.  A bibliography file
need not be in the same directory as its index file, but the bibliography file
must stay in the directory it was in when the index file was created.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP \w'\-pp'u
.B \-d \fIpgm\fP
Display matches using the program \fIpgm\fP.  The default is to use the program
given in the PAGER environment variable, or to use \fBmore\fP\|(1) if PAGER
isn't defined.  Repeated \fB\-d\fP options are not cumulative; all but the
right-most option is ignored.

.TP 
.B \-p \fIint\fP
Print messages from level \fIint\fP or below; \fIint\fP is an integer. For
levels less than 1, print no messages; for level 1, print error messages; for
level 2, print progress messages; for level 3, print statistics.  The default
level is 1. Repeated \fB\-p\fP options are not cumulative; all but the
right-most option is ignored.

.TP
.B \-s \fIdirs\fP
Search through the directories given in \fIdirs\fP when looking for index
files; \fIdirs\fP is a colon separated list of directories.  The default is to
search though the directories given in the BIBINPUTS environment variable, or
to search the current directory if BIBINPUTS isn't defined.  Repeated \fB\-s\fP
options are not cumulative; all but the right-most option is ignored.

.TP
.B \-u
Update out-of-date index files by calling \*(BI.  The default is to ignore
out-of-date index files.

.SH OPERATION
When run, \*(BL repeatedly prompts for a list of words and returns all entries
found containing all the words; the name of the bibliography file containing
the entry precedes each entry.
.PP
A word consists of two or more letters and/or digits; one character words are
neither indexed nor searched for. Letter case is ignored.  A non-alphanumeric
character is replaced by a space; for example, if you type \*(LqO'Reilly\*(Rq,
\*(BI searches for \*(Lqreilly\*(Rq (the apostrophe is turned into a space and
the \*(LqO\*(Rq is dropped as a single character word).

.SH FILES
.TP  \w'\-pp'u
$HOME\|/\|.btxlookrc
.btxlookrc is read before the command line is processed and may contain any of
the \*(BL command-line options.  Options given on the command line over-ride
the same options given in this file.
.PP
The contents of .btxlookrc are run through shell expansion while being read;
for example $HOME would be replaced by its definition.  Shell expansion does
not include command-result replacement; for example, `pwd` and $(pwd)
directives are not processed.  Errors that occur during shell expansion, such
as undefined environment variables or attempts to perform command-result
replacement, cause \*(BL to stop with an error.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*(BI\|(1), \fBbibtex\fP\|(1), \fBlatex\fP\|(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Jeff Erickson wrote \fBbiblook\fP; R. Clayton modified \fBbiblook\fP to create
\*(BL.
.PP
This program is in the public domain.  You may use it or modify it to your
heart's content, at your own risk.
